DRBD MANAGE END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
OCTOBER 28, 2016


PLEASE READ THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. BY USING THE SOFTWARE DRBD
MANAGE YOU ACCEPT ALL TERMS OF THE LICENSE AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO
THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, DO NOT INSTALL, COPY, OR USE THE SOFTWARE.


1.) DEFINITIONS

1.1) LICENSOR: LINBIT HA Solutions GmbH, Stiegergasse 18, 1150 Wien, Austria.

1.2) LICENSEE: The user of DRBD Manage under this License Agreement.

1.3) LICENSED SOFTWARE: The Software DRBD Manage in source code and object
code form including all executable programs.

1.4) DOCUMENTATION: The DRBD Users' Guide, e-mails and other explanatory
materials accompanying the LICENSED SOFTWARE in printed or electronic form.


2.) OWNERSHIP / INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

LICENSEE acknowledges that ownership and all intellectual property rights
related to the LICENSED SOFTWARE and to the DOCUMENTATION, including
patents, copyright, trademarks, company or trade secrets, remain with the
LICENSOR.

LICENSEE promises to keep and not to modify the copyright notices of the
LICENSOR.


3.) SCOPE OF LICENSE

3.1) Provided LICENSEE accepts all terms of this License Agreement, LICENSEE
is granted a non-exclusive right to use the LICENSED SOFTWARE, which means
LICENSEE may use the software for redistribution to an unrestricted number
of users and for an unrestricted number of computer systems, as well as use
the accompanying DOCUMENTATION, as follows:

a) The LICENSEE is allowed to redistribute the LICENSED SOFTWARE and/or
distribute software builds from modified source code under exactly the same
terms of this License Agreement. The LICENSEE is entitled to sell or give
away the software alone, or as part of an aggregate software distribution,
in either source code or compiled form. The LICENSOR will not charge license
fees or royalty payments or any other fee for this redistribution,
distribution or modification.

b) The license granted to the LICENSEE does not include any discrimination
against persons, groups or against fields of endeavor and does not restrict
users from using the software for a particular field of endeavour - a
business for example (eg. there is no restriction to distribute the LICENSED
SOFTWARE as "free for non-commercial use").

c) The LICENSED SOFTWARE must not be distributed under a license specific to
a certain program or software package. The rights attached to the software
must not depend on the program being part of a specific software system or
package.

d) The LICENSED SOFTWARE does not contaminate other software licenses. The
license does not place restrictions on other software that is distributed
along with it. For example, the LICENSE must not insist that all other
programs distributed along with the LICENSED SOFTWARE be free software.

e) Source modifications of the LICENSED SOFTWARE must be distributed as
patches. The LICENSED SOFTWARE and modifications to the software must be
distributed separately, so that third parties always have a copy of the
pristine code. However, the license explicitly permits distribution of
software built from modified source code.

3.2) Without prior written consent of LICENSOR or an authorized partner,
LICENSEE may modify the source code and use the modified version of the
LICENSED SOFTWARE as specified under section 3.1 as long as the LICENSEE
provides to the LICENSOR and third parties exactly the same rights to the
modified source code and modified version as the LICENSOR does to the
LICENSEE. The LICENSOR and third parties can exercise their rights to this
software without having to pay for the privilege, and can pass these rights
on to other people on exactly the same basis as the LICENSOR did to the
LICENSEE.

3.3) The LICENSED SOFTWARE and the modifications generated by LICENSEE shall
remain the property of LICENSOR and no rights are granted to LICENSEE,
including but not limited to neither copyright nor the right to apply for
industrial property rights, except as specified under section 3.1 and 3.2.

3.4) Without prior written consent of LICENSOR or an authorized partner,
LICENSEE is not allowed to:

a) use, copy or distribute the LICENSED SOFTWARE except as provided for
under sections 3.1 and 3.2.

b) provide software support or trainings for the LICENSED SOFTWARE or its
modifications to any third party.

c) use LICENSOR's trademarks, e.g. DRBD®, LINBIT® (and logos) in any manner
for providing support and/or training for its products and/or services.

d) use the LICENSORS trademarks mentioned under section 3.4 c) in any manner
that expresses or implies any legal association, affiliation, sponsorship,
endorsement certification or approval by the LICENSOR.

e) rent or lease the LICENSED SOFTWARE and DOCUMENTATION to any third party
except as provided for under sections 3.1 and 3.2.

f) modify, adapt, or translate the LICENSED SOFTWARE for any third party
except as provided for under sections 3.1 and 3.2.

3.5) The license under this License Agreement relates to the LICENSED
SOFTWARE.



4.) LIMITED WARRANTY AND LIABILITY

4.1) LICENSOR confirms that the LICENSED SOFTWARE has been developed without
infringement of any rights of third parties, in particular patents,
copyrights or other intellectual property rights of third
parties. Nevertheless LICENSOR does not warrant that the use of the LICENSED
SOFTWARE by LICENSEE does not infringe any third party intellectual property
rights.

4.2) LICENSEE is aware that there is a risk that the LICENSED SOFTWARE might
damage the data or the computer of the LICENSEE or even other computers on
the network in unpredictable ways. The use of the LICENSED SOFTWARE is at
the exclusive risk of the LICENSEE. LICENSOR does not offer any warranty
either expressed or implied and is not liable for any damages resulting from
the use of the LICENSED SOFTWARE or DOCUMENTATION such as, but not limited
to, data loss.

4.3) Notwithstanding sections 4.1 and 4.2, the liability of the LICENSOR,
its legal representatives and employees resulting from breach of duty or
tort is restricted to damages caused intentionally or by gross
negligence. In any case, the liability under this section is limited by
typical, foreseeable, direct damages. The liability is unrestricted for
damages of the body, life or health.


5.) MISCELLANEOUS

5.1 This License Agreement in English is the original one. The terms of this
Agreement can only be modified or amended in writing. In case of
interpretation controversies the terms of this Agreement shall prevail over
the respective terms of any other agreements.

5.2 Austrian law shall apply with the exception of such legal provisions
that make reference to the law of other countries.

5.3 Disputes, in particular those related to the formation or dissolution of
the contract, the contractual relation of the parties or any claims arising
thereunder, shall be decided by the court having subject matter jurisdiction
for the 1st district of Vienna (Austria).  However, if the LICENSEE’s
registered office is not within the European Union (EU) or within one of the
EFTA States, all disputes shall be finally settled in accordance with the
Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) by one
or more arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said Rules; the place
of arbitration shall be Vienna; the language of arbitration shall be
English. Furthermore LICENSOR shall also be entitled to bring proceedings
against the LICENSEE before any other court, e.g. before the LICENSEE’s
court of general jurisdiction.  The LICENSEE shall compensate the LICENSOR
for any costs necessary for bringing appropriate legal action, in particular
for attorneys' fees, and for any pre-trial expenses incurred by LICENSOR.


5.4 In case that one or several of the terms of this Agreement should be or
become invalid or unenforceable, the validity of the other terms shall
remain unaffected. In such a case, the parties shall replace the invalid or
unenforceable condition by another legally effective provision meeting the
purpose of the abolished provision to the greatest extent. The same applies
in case of a gap of regulation.

Changes:
3.4 b was amended on December 19, 2016
